If you struggle with perfectionism, this
is going to be a great video for you to
watch. In this coaching session, I work
with a founder who's got a ton of
self-doubt, and we find out the solution
is really just about how he treats
himself.
>> I have a lot of either limiting beliefs
that I kind of intellectually grasp and
I find counter examples.
>> Yeah.
or slash and I don't trust myself and
it's um so it's very present in
in let's say things I want to achieve.
So basically um so I work a 9 to 5 job
and would like to build a small startup
aside um build an app for example these
sorts of things um also
um maybe living a little bit of a let's
say freer life not in the sense that I'm
free but um traveling or like all these
things and
>> mh
>> I find a lot of example of people who
have done it and each time I'm starting
to actually sit down on a computer build
the app I don't Like my body doesn't
believe it. That that that's me. That
could be me.
>> What? So, just to be clear, does your
body believe you can't build an app?
>> No. No. I My brain knows I can build an
app. My body might not believe that I
either have the perseverance, I'm the
right person, I put in enough effort, um
it's the right time. It's like all the
these these things around there. And
when you work at your job, do you have
all the you're like, I couldn't ever
work in a bureaucracy. It can't be me
who builds.
I assume you do some sort of computer
programming at your
>> is like all those thoughts happen when
you're in your job.
>> Um
as well not as strong though. So though
it's a it's a little bit like um like
despite the fact that
so I there there's no evidence that like
I'm not good at my job. Let's let's
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Cool. So how many attempts would
you have to have building an app until
you were 100% certain that you weren't
able to do it? Build an app that made
you able to be independent. How many
times would you have to
build attempt to build an app and
release it before you had undeniable
proof that you couldn't do it?
>> I'd like to say many, but probably the
the honest answer is one.
>> One. So if you built one app and you and
that WAP wasn't successful, then that
would be proof that you could not build
an app.
>> Like
I I know that's not how it works,
>> but it still feels like there is so much
>> on that one attempt or like and it's not
just yet like it's with with many
attempts.
>> Yeah. So that's really good. It's good
that you don't think you can do it
because you can't. If that's true,
look at that smile.
Yeah.
I really hate you right now. But
>> what would be required for you to I know
that if you do programming then you know
what it is to fail fast. You know what
it is to be iterative. You know what it
is to do experiments and find out if
they work and then build off of your
experiments. Like I know you know all
that stuff and you know that that's what
makes you successful in your job.
But somehow or another, when you are
doing this all for yourself, it has to
be perfect the first time,
which is
>> and I'm never spending enough time
>> and you're never spending enough time.
So, not only are you going to fail,
you're currently failing.
Like, you're ensuring failure.
Okay, check it out. You're going to hire
me as a coach, right? You're like, "Joe,
I'm thinking about hiring you as a
coach." I'm like, "Cool. Here's the
thing is I'm going to always feel like
I'm not spending enough time with you.
I'm never going to spend enough time
with you. And if I don't make you
absolutely perfect on the first attempt,
I'm going to think I'm a bad coach.
Want to hire me?
>> All right. Makes sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Also, do you want to work for me?
Do I want to work for you? like
you're like if I was a programmer and
you were like, "Hey, you I want to hire
you. Here's the thing is I'm always
going to tell you you're not doing
enough and if you don't get it
absolutely perfect on the first attempt,
I'm going to say that you failed."
>> Yeah, that would be an awesome job, I
guess. Awesome boss.
>> Exactly. So, if you're not doing it,
that's why
you're a shitty boss.
Yeah, I guess so.
>> What kind of boss do you want to be?
>> One that kind of lets things develop at
the natural pace but still like still
kind of reaches goals and like still is
ambitious. It's not like ah I feel today
I feel like working in two weeks I might
feel like working it again like
>> Right. Yeah. So, and I I feel like
that's where I'm that like with this
specific example where I'm having
difficulties, but it's in general I
think with reaching I'm not sure if it's
reaching goals, but it's a sort of uh
like I'm very impatient with
I know like if I just work whenever I
feel like okay if I just work whenever I
feel like it
>> Yeah.
>> I'm never going to get there. What's
wrong with that? Like I I know something
feels wrong about that, but
>> yeah. So, how how about how about
>> you're going to work one hour a day on
it,
but I'm going to be your boss for a
minute. Here's what I'm going to tell
you to do. I'm going to tell you your
job is to work on it one hour a day. I
don't give a if you accomplish
anything for that one hour. The only
thing I care about is that you enjoy
yourself.
That you work on the project and you
enjoy yourself. That's the only thing I
care about.
>> All right.
>> You want to work for me?
>> Sounds awesome.
>> Yeah. How effective are you going to be?
>> Probably pretty effective.
>> At least more effective than you are
now.
>> Definitely more effective than I right
>> Yeah. So what what what's required for
you to be that boss?
I I like I want to say patience, but it
it's it's not I think it's not
necessarily the right thing. Um or like
doesn't doesn't feel like it. Uh
like kind of go with the flow but in a
non-hippy way if that makes sense.
Go with the flow in a German way. It
absolutely makes sense. My German
heritage loves it.
>> I didn't want to offend anybody of the
400 500. Anyways, yeah, makes sense.
Makes sense. Um,
it's much harder to do than to to grasp
intellectually. I don't know.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> Really? You don't know how to enjoy
programming? That's hard.
No, I'm having a big djà vu. I know you
you had a you had a session with someone
basically exactly the same thing. It's
online in YouTube. I have a big du right
now and I'm like didn't I learn anything
when I when I watch that?
>> Yeah. So, so right. So that I think
there is a part you didn't learn which
is how do you enjoy yourself more right
now? Just I want you to enjoy yourself
just 5% more right now. I don't want you
to change anything you're doing. Just
enjoy yourself 5% more right now.
>> Yeah, I can do that.
>> Yeah. So, how hard was that?
>> That was very easy.
>> Yeah. So, that's how easy it is.
>> Thank you so much.
>> You're welcome. If you enjoyed this
coaching session and you want to
experience it live, just go here or
click the link below. I look forward to
seeing you there.